# Java Tutorial

### Java Virtual Machine(JVC)

#### Java Program Execution Process:

	1. Writing the program is of course done by java programmers
	2. Since Java is a compiled language, it is then compiled via Javac compiler
    that comes with the Java Development Kit(JDK). It takes the Java program as
    input and outputs java bytecode.
  3. In third and final phase, JVM executes the java bytecode generated by
    compiler. This is called run phase.

** Each operating system has different JVM, however the output they produce after
execution is same across all operating systems. That is why we call Java
as platform independent.**

### Bytecode

Javac compiler of JDK compiles the Java source code in to bytecode so it can be executed
by JVM. The bytecode is saved in a .class file by compiler.

### Java Development Kit(JDK)

Java Development Kit includes JRE (Java Runtime Environment), compilers and various like
JavaDoc, Java Debugger etc.

### Definition of Java

Java is a general purpose programming language that is concurrent, class based, object oriented and platform independent language.

### First Java Program

```jAVA
//FirstJavaProgram.java
public class FirstJavaProgram {

}//End of FirstJavaProgram Class
```

** Every Java file should be named the same as the ```public class``` name. Every Java application must have at least one class definition that consists of class keyword followed by the class name **

```jAva
//FirstJavaProgram.java
public class FirstJavaProgram {
  public static void main(String[] args){
    System.out.println("This is my first program in java");
  }//End of main
}//End of FirstJavaProgram Class
```

**public**: This makes the main method public that means that we can call it
from outside the class.

**static**: We do not need to create object for static methods to run. They can
run itself.

**void**: It does not return anything

**main**: It is the method name that serves as an entry point from which JVM
can run the Java program.

**String[] args**: Used for command line arguments that are passed as strings 

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	